https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VsSaWq5FIAAZg3u9-tV4W8MOVEU3epw8i89lSWO7BSE/edit?tab=t.0

His Holiness Adhokshaja Swami was born in the Moscow region in Serpukhov on May 16, 1975. A few words about his parents: Adhokshaja Swami's father, Gennady Nikolaevich Mironov, was born in the Vladimir region, in the city of Murom in 1939, graduated from 2 universities with 2 gold medals. He treated his son’s choice to accept Krishna consciousness with caution; it was difficult for him to truly accept the philosophy and way of life but on his business trip to the far north he was distributed a set of small Srila Prabhupada’s books, after which he read them periodically, and after retirement he began to repeat the Hare Krishna mantra from time to time.

His mother Nella Nikolaevna Mironova was born in the Vladimir region, in the city of Murom, graduated from a technical university.

In those years, Adhokshaji Swami’s mother was in search of the meaning of life attending various lectures on esotericism, hatha yoga, as well as 7th-day Adventist meetings. In addition to everything, Nella Nikolaevna, together with her little son loved to visit museums, exhibitions, art galleries, theaters and Orthodox monasteries.

In 1990 Nella Nikolaevna attended a lecture on bhakti yoga given by Jayananda Prabhu at the central palace of culture "Russia" - a 5-day series of lectures. She inspired her son (Adhokshaja Swami), who at that time was in the last grades of school, to come to the second lecture.

From this began their spiritual life in Krishna Consciousness. In 1997 Nella Nikolaevna received her first initiation from His Holiness Gopal Krishna Goswami and became known as Nityanga devi dasi. In 2002 Mataji Nityanga received her second initiation. The services that Mataji Nityanga did throughout her spiritual path were: making garlands for deities, distributing Srila Prabhupada's books and serving household deities. She distributes books to this day at the age of 84 every other day in a wheelchair.

Adhokshaja Swami's elder sister, Sorokina Svetlana Gennadievna, thanks to communication with Mataji Nityanga, also began to engage in the practice of devotional service, in particular the distribution of books. And to this day she is also a practicing devotee, repeating 16 rounds everyday.
...

During Maharaj’s childhood his parents made sure that his time was kept busy, so in addition to the Adhokshaja Swami school, as a child he constantly attended a ski section, checkers club, chess school and music school, from which he graduated with honors.
As we have already noted he came into contact with the practice of Krishna consciousness in 1990.
Then, after attending the lectures, he very quickly began to practice: repeating the mantra and reading books. He began to visit namahata in Protvino town, as well as the Tula Temple and the Moscow Center for Krishna Consciousness.

The Tula Temple of Krishna Consciousness at that time was led by Jayananda Prabhu, whose lecture the future Adhokshaja Swami attended in the city of Serpukhov. The meeting with Jayananda prabhu made a very deep impression on him, Jayananda prabhu seemed like a messenger from heaven, he was not like ordinary people and gave the impression of a real enlightened person and Krishna consciousness was revealed through the prism of his understanding and emotions. Maharaj, who was young at that time, was first truly attracted by the personality of Jayananda Prabhu and only then by the practice and philosophy itself.


Adhokshaja Swami enjoyed reading Srila Prabhupada's books after being inspired by Jayananda Prabhu and had a natural desire to share this knowledge, which he used to do on the train to university several times a week. He sat down with people who seemed more innocent and talked about what he had read in the Bhagavad-gita and other books of Srila Prabhupada. Most of the people by the end of the trip sincerely wanted to buy the Bhagavad Gita, which he spoke about on the train. And with bewilderment, since Adhokshaja Swami did not know anything about the distribution of books then, he used to answer: “I cannot sell this book, go to the Begovaya temple and buy it there yourself.”
...

Niranjana Swami.
His first meeting with his first teacher took place in the early 90s, when he came with Rohini Suta prabhu to a festival at the "Tourist" near Red Square in Moscow. There were a lot of emotions, inspiration and enthusiasm. A very strong spirit of sankirtana was transmitted from Harikesa Maharaj, which laid the foundation for Adhokshaja Swami's further participation in preaching. In his lectures Harikesa Maharaj constantly spoke about book distribution, preaching Krishna Consciousness and conveying the spirit of Srila Prabhupada's preaching and consciousness.

Communication with Vaishnavas in those years made a very vivid impression on Adhokshaja Swami; all the devotees seemed to be very close and dear people and friends. All of them were united by preaching and service. Most of the time in the early years he spent communicating with Maheshvara prabhu at the traveling sankirtana. This is an amazing and humble Vaisnava devotee who set an example of surrender to Krishna.
When they first went on a sankirtana young Adhokshaja Maharaj armed himself with many quotations from the Bible and other scriptures and philosophical sayings for effective preaching, but after a series of philosophical disputes with people he was faced with the reality that they did not take books from him, but they bought books from Mahesvara Prabhu, then he advised him that he should rely on Srila Prabhupada and Lord Caitanya.

In 1992 Adhokshaji Swami's mother and his sister attended a Gauranga Bhajan Band concert which made an indelible impression on them.

At a certain stage, Adhokshaja Swami decided to leave Moscow State University and go live in a brahmachari ashram. One evening he was sitting with his mother in the kitchen. She was eating a sweet pie and then he told her about his decision, the pie was stuck in her mouth, it was a shock! Adhokshaja Maharaj's mother tried to dissuade him, but nothing worked, then she made one last attempt, saying that he needed to consult Jayananda prabhu. Young Adhokshaja Maharaj enthusiastically accepted this advice and went to Jayananda Prabhu, who fully supported him in this decision by quoting verse 66 from the 18th chapter of the Bhagavad Gita. After this, Adhokshaja Maharaj’s mother had no other arguments left and she let him live in the temple.

While living in the brahmachari ashram quite interesting incidents and stories happened. Once Maharaj was on a sankirtana retreat in Ivanovo town. One morning during Mangala-arati, after devotees chanted the Nrisimha mantra very suddenly a young man burst into the temple room, reeking of alcohol. He was quite young and brawny. The devotees brought Tulasi in. Bowed, the man stood and could not understand where he had ended up and what to do, when he saw that everyone had bowed, then looking to the right and left he also decided to bow. Then he stood rooted to the spot during the service, the service ended and so did the devotees. They tried to understand how he got into the temple. The smell from the drunken young man spread throughout the entire altar room. Sivananda Sena prabhu, Adhokshaja Maharaj and bhakta Sergei, the three of them, tried to talk to him gently after the end of the service. The young man asked: “Who are you guys?” The devotees said that they were devotees of Krishna and asked him how he came to the temple. To which the young man replied that he was a drunk policeman in civilian clothes. The devotees tried to see him off gently and gave him prasad. But since he was drunk, his mood suddenly changed and the man said: “Guys, I think I need to hit you!” While moving towards the stairs he swung his hand and at the same time accidentally hit his head with all his might on the stairs behind him which caused a smile among the devotees, since he got what he himself wanted to do. Sivananda Sena prabhu said: “You see, there is a law of karma: what you sow is what you reap.” The young man rubbed his bump, he lost the enthusiasm to hit those gathered around him, and as a result, the devotees managed to smoothly see off the intruder. Also, while living in the brahmachari ashram, there were many stories related to the distribution of books and preaching programs

As a young man he graduated from high school and entered the Faculty of History at Moscow State University, but due to the decision made to live in a brahmachari ashram he left the university.
In 1993 Adhokshaja Swami went to live in a brahmachari ashram in the city of Yaroslavl. From the very beginning he was involved in the book distribution ministry. Very soon the local temple leadership asked him to act as the leader of sankirtana, and in 2000 H.H. Gopal Krishna Goswami asked him to act as the regional sankirtana leader. In 1995 Adhokshaja Swami received his first initiation from Harikesha Swami, and in 2000 he received reinitiation and at the same time his second initiation from Niranjana Swami.

From 2000-2002 he served in Ivanovo, and from 2003 to the present day in Nizhny Novgorod. Adhokshaja Swami teaches philosophy and book distribution to young Vaishnavas. He organizes annual sankirtana tours to the south of Russia for young Vaishnavas, as well as for his brahmachari ashram. In 2001 he began publishing the magazine “Sankirtana of the New Epoch”, which is still published. Since 2010 he launched the Russian project “Weekend Sankirtana” in Nizhny Novgorod and from that time on he has been methodically launching this program in other cities of Russia to this day. In 2014 with the blessing of His Holiness Bhakti Vijnana Goswami Maharaj, he opened a children's and youth stationary school for young Vaishnavas with spiritual inclinations. There are some other projects that have been opened between 2001 and 2020 by him.
H.H. Adhokshaja Swami has been traveling since 2000 to conduct preaching programs and distribute books throughout Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Central Asian countries and the Baltic countries. A vivid impression was made by the meeting with Niranjana Maharaj and other disciples of Srila Prabhupada, who gave their communication during their visit to the Russian yatras and at the Sadhu-Sanga festival. In 2017 he was put on the waiting list for accepting sannyasa and in 2023 received the third initiation from H.H. Niranjana Swami in Almaty.


